# GDB

## Start a GDB session with just the executable
gdb <executable>
## Start a GDB session with the executable and arguments
gdb --args <executable> <arg1> <arg2> ...
## Attach GDB to the process
gdb -p <pid>

## Source file
Notice the line containing No such file or directory. Next, we need to inform GDB where to find the source code. In your GDB session, run the following command: The substitute-path setting in GDB takes two parameters. Whenever GDB looks for a path that starts with the first parameter, it substitutes it with the second. set substitute-path 
## To add substitution rule
(gdb) set substitute-path </from/dir> </to/dir>
## Add directories to GDB's source search path - another way
(gdb) directory <dir1> <dir2> ...

Now, you can start experimenting with GDB:

## Common functions
Use list . (or l . for short) to view the next portion of code to be executed.
Use list (or l for short) to display more of the source code.
Use next (or n for short) to execute the next source line. Accept a numerical argument, allowing you to specify the number of lines to skip.
Use step (or s for short) to step into a function.
Use finish to step out of the current function.
Use continue (or c for short) to let the program run freely.
Use backtrace (or bt for short) to view the current stack frames.
Use quit (or q for short) to exit GDB.
Use start for debugging from the first instruction.
Use run to execute the program until it hits a breakpoint.

## Breakpoints
locspec, short for Location Specification - can be provided in various formats, including linenum, filename:linenum, function, or filename:function.
## Break on a locspec
(gdb) break <locspec>
## Display a list of all breakpoints, watchpoints, and catchpoints
(gdb) info breakpoints
## Remove all breakpoints or specific ones by their IDs
(gdb) delete
## Ignore the next n hits of a breakpoint
(gdb) ignore <id> <n>

## Threads
By adding the thread option to the break command, you can set a breakpoint that applies only to a specific thread.

## List existing threads
(gdb) info threads

## Switch between threads
(gdb) thread <id>

## Set a breakpoint for a specific thread
(gdb) break <locspec> thread <id>

## Give up execution of a function and return a value
(gdb) return <return-value-expression>

## Trace
## To investigate the arguments passed to the function or the local variables within the selected frame
(gdb) backtrace
(gdb) frame <id>
(gdb) info args  # Optionally filter by <name> or -t <type-name>
(gdb) info locals  # Optionally filter by <name> or -t <type-name>

## End
To conclude a GDB session, use the following commands as needed:

## Terminate the program being debugged
(gdb) kill

## Detach GDB from the program being debugged
(gdb) detach

## Exit the GDB session
(gdb) quit

## Print
The print command is arguably the most important expression of all.
You can modify a variable’s value while debugging the program by using print with an assignment expression. 
print <var> = <val>

## Core Dumps
A core dump captures the state of a program at the moment of a crash or during a hang. It can be created manually or configured to be automatically generated by the operating system when a program crashes.

## Attach to a process with a specific Process ID (PID)
gdb -p <pid>

## Generate a core dump to a custom file
(gdb) generate-core-file <filename>

## Start a GDB session with the core dump
gdb <executable> <core-dump-file>
In a GDB session with a core dump, you cannot resume execution because the core dump represents a snapshot of the program’s state at a specific moment. It is not a running process.
